Now we're really close to the end of this module therefore we need to make sure that we now dispatch
actions for creating a new product or for updating a product.
And therefore first of all we need to add these actions here in our actions folder.
So export constant here create product like this here create product and then a year old and no identifier
for updating and product with update product and update product like this and create fitting action
creators or create product and now it's up to you how you want a structured is what data you expect
to get when you create a product.
I'm a fan of creating the product really here in the action or in the reducer side.
So I actually expect to get a title here description image you are all in a price let's say and then
I return action OBJECT WHERE TO TYPE IS create product and the product data is simply all that data
merge together.
So here I have my title which is mapped to the title we get as an argument description mapped to description
and therefore we can all use a modern javascript shortcut where if the property name and the value variable
name is the same you can just write it like this.
So it's the same like Price code in price we can just write this here cause that's all the possible
for titling description.
So did we map all these arguments into properties of the same name and is object and if we update a
product that's relatively equal update product so we can generally copy that but there is one important
difference here we all need the idea of the product which needs to change so we get this as an extra
argument and we can store does our action day for in a separate property of our action object now in
the reducer.
We of course need to handle that.
We need to handle the creation and updating so let's add a new case here in the products reducer for
create product and for dad make sure you import create product from actions products and of course one
for updating a product with update product make sure you import that as well.
In create product of course we need to create a new product and I'll store it in a constant here with
the new keyword in the product model we created earlier.
For Dad you just need to make sure you import this product model here from the models folder and that
product here receives an I.D. which for now can generate manually with new data to string to have a
kind of pseudo unique dummy I.D. for the moment later this will be generated on a server but we don't
have that yet.
Owner idea for now is hardcoded to you one because we have no users in this app right now.
But Thailand's on can be populated with data from the action because in the action for creating a product
we have the product data key and that holds the object with title description.
Image your URL and price in that state.
We can now retrieve.
So here for title we get action product data dot title where the image you sell it's action dot product
data dot image you URL unsurprisingly for the description it's action dot product data dot description
and for the price it's action dot product data dot price this is now a new product I create.
Now we need to add it to our store by returning our updated state here where I first of all copy the
existing state and now I need to add it to both the away label products and the user products because
we created it it certainly therefore belongs to us so it needs to be part of both arrays and the away
label products well there we can take these away label products we got and use Cong cat to get a new
array which is the older Ray plus add new element and here new product is that new element and I do
the exact same thing here for a user products.
So here I use stage user products and I can cat my new product now what about updating for updating.
We first of all need to find the index of the current product.
So product index could be a constant name can be found by accessing our user products and data with
find index which has a built in JavaScript method we can find the index of a certain element.
Again this takes a function which executes on every element in that array and that needs to return true
so that we will have an index and there will look at the ideas and look for the ideas where it's equal
to my pit my action pit.
Because if you remember how we set up that action for updating we do have that PID field here which
holds de product ideas we're getting.
So I'm looking for that product and then I store the index of that product in the user products array
in the product in next year.
Now we can create an updated product here which is technically a new product object but of course pre
populated with some old data.
For example we keep the ideas.
So we take action PID as a value here.
I also keep the owner I.D. and for data can access state user products for the index.
We just find out so for that product index dog owner I.D. I won't change this.
Of course they will store the new title.
So here I will store action product data dot title I will stored in you image your l so action dot product
data dot image your url and it will stored in you.
Description so action dot product data dot description however I mentioned the price should not be editable
so as a value for this I will keep the original price so stay at user products product index dot price
here by the way that also means that our action is not entirely correct there.
I also expect the price I shouldn't do that because we can't enter it in our inputs anyways we don't
need it so we shouldn't expect it here we shouldn't forward it as part of product data for update product
for a new product we need it for updating we don't.
So with that we have our updated product with some new data and some old data now we need to update
our state of course we're glad we have the updated user products we're in the end I copy my existing
user products with this syntax here to create a copy and then I set updated user products for the selected
product index equal to the updated product so I replaced de product at this index with the new updated
product in my copy not in your original array but in my copy I need to do the same in the away label
product but there I first of all need to find the index because that index here only works for the user
products the index and the available products is very likely a different one.
So I have my away label product index here if you want to call it like this which generally has the
same selection logic so we can copy that but of course I will look into the available products array
instead of the user products array and now again here we can have the updated way label products where
I copy my own state available products and then I said updated available products for a given product
index equal to sues me for the for the available product index of course equal to the updated product
so that I replace my existing product with the updated product in both the available products and the
user products array well and now we just need to return our new state first of all copy the existing
one and now set a weight label products equal to updated available products and said user products equal
to updated user products so to my updated arrays I'm configuring up their with that we hopefully have
all the logic we need now Let's dispatch these events from inside the edit product screen so here we
need to import used this patch from HREOC redux and import our actions to import everything as products
actions from the store folder data from the actions folder and there from the products file and then
dispatch these things in the submit handler of course here what we dispatch depends on whether we're
adopting or adding.
And as I mentioned we can find out what's the case with the help of added the product if it's set we're
editing if it's not set we're adding.
So in here in the submit HANDLER We can edit if check and check if added that product if dataset we're
editing.
So then I want to dispatch my update product event for it at first of all I need to create that dispatch
function with the help of U.S. dispatch and now with that created down there we can call this patch
products actions update product because that's what we're doing here.
And now forward all the data we need here.
Which is my fraud idea.
That's the idea of the product we're editing we're extracting that up here
and of course in addition all the foreword to title forward the description all these state constants
we have here our image your El and not the price because we don't need that and the Ellis case here.
That means we're adding.
Then I want to dispatch products action start create product here.
We forward title description image you add L and all of the price.
And with that we should have a setup where we hopefully can add and edit products.
So let's safeties end.
Let's take a look if we now go to the admin area here and I added this and I add exclamation mark here
and all to one here in the description and I hit save I get undefined is not an object evaluating props
price to fixed.
So looks like a lost my price here and trying to update this.
Well OK before we fix this let's see if adding a new product works at all.
If I add a product here with test test which is of course not a valid image you also will not see an
image but at least while we sip at something this is also our test.
If we try this and I hit submit does all that doesn't work.
So somehow it's saving the price doesn't work.
And I think the problem is here of course the problem here is the price is actually a string here but
should be a number so we can easily convert it to a number by adding a plus here before we pass it to
create product for updating on the other hand if we have a look at our products reducer it should normally
keep the price it already had.
So let's see if that plus fixes it for adding or if there is a different issue as well.
This was a change that's required anyways but let's see if there is a no problem so.
Test test twelve please enter only numbers here not some text which you currently could buy which would
break it test this press this button Yeah that doesn't look too bad.
We got some problem with the image here but if we scroll down actually here if we dismiss this we can
see here's our product.
So price is missing so something's wrong there.
And we also don't seem to save the image correctly.
Not only because it's not displayed but because of that warning we got.
But generally this works.
However for example here if I tried to up that doesn't save does we still get an error so there still
is something wrong.
So one thing that's wrong is in actions of course for update product here the type should be update
product and not create product.
Otherwise we triggered the wrong action the reducer which explains the price error we got there.
So this has to be update product here for updating a product unsurprisingly.
So that's one problem but another big problem can be found in the added product screen I use my use
callback method here to wrap the submit handler right and I do this to a what.
Unnecessary recreations of the functions.
The problem is I initially set this to have an empty array as a dependency list which means this never
is recreated which made sense when we only had console log in there.
But now we're doing stuff in there and now we actually do have dependencies.
Right now I never recreate this function which means it never is recreate for its updated values.
So when we submit our form we never take into account what the user entered.
So actually now we need to specify dependencies here.
The dispatch function but more importantly even the prod I.D. the title the description and the image
you are El and also of course the price now with Dad if we saved us be we should be fine and all the
issues should be gone.
So let's wait for this to reload.
Go to admin now and start editing this maybe and now if we add exclamation mark in the title and in
the description we safeties and go back we see that here and if we go to products we also seed here
and then the details we also see that exclamation mark.
Now if we go back to admin and create a new product.
Test test.
Twelve test this and I safeties and I go back.
Now this all shows up down there of course the image doesn't show up because we haven't entered a valid
U R L but all the other data shows up so this is generally working.
And of course you could enter a valid image you were L and that would also break let's quickly test
us as well so let's go back to the admin section and add a shelf here maybe for Dad I selected the year
l off a shelf I found on the Internet for one hundred ninety nine point ninety nine this is a nice is
a nice shelf like this for now safeties and we go back does looks good here's our image and we also
see that here on the product screen and can view it here as well.
So this seems to work.
And with that we generally have a set up does it does work.
Now there are minor things which I want to work on for example before we delete would be nice to have
a little confirmation dialog and in addition I want to make sure that when we added or edited a product
when we clicked save here we automatically navigate back.
So these are just minor things of course but I think they make for a nice final here in this module.